## Iot Project Fall 2018

# Internet Connected Coffee Maker

### Project Description

This project will consist of a coffee maker that is controlled by a Particle Photon device to automate when your coffee is made. This will be accomplished by initially linking the users Google Calender data to the Photon device so that it will start brewing their coffee a few minutes before they plan on waking up. Using a weight sensor it will record when the coffee is picked up and record that in a database. Over time, a machine learning algorithm will analyze those pickup times and refine when it starts brewing coffee based on previous days. There will be a mechanism in place to override this algorithm in case the user needs to wake up earlier than normal or other similar circumstances. The algorithm will be performed most likely be some cloud solution so as to avoid having to implement it on the Photon board in C. The particle will also be able to recieve inputs over the web to start brewing if the user decides they want a cup of coffee at some time other than the morning, these cups will not be factored into the machine learning database. The coffee maker will be able to function without the particle being connected to the internet either through its normal operation or by having the Photon have a seperate input acting as a hardware override. The hardware necessary for this project will most likely be a simple analog weight sensor, some sort of linear actuator or servo to turn on the machine, the Photon board, and the necessary electrical components to power the board using the same AC power source going to the machine.

If time allows, a display of somesort will be attached to the coffe maker and will take weather data from the internet and display it so that the user can see what the weather will be like in the day first thing in the morning when they are having their coffee.
